tiproxy: add tiproxy (#15634)
pingcap/docs: tiproxy/tiproxy-overview.md

TiProxy is not suitable for the following scenarios:

- Sensitive to performance: The performance of TiProxy is lower than that of HAProxy and other load balancers, so using TiProxy will reduce the QPS. For details, refer to [TiProxy Performance Test Report](/tiproxy/tiproxy-performance-test.md).
- Sensitive to cost: If the TiDB cluster uses hardware load balancers, virtual IP, or the load balancer provided by Kubernetes, adding TiProxy will increase the cost. In addition, if you deploy the TiDB cluster across availability zones on the cloud, adding TiProxy will also increase the traffic cost across availability zones.
- TiDB server failover: TiProxy can keep the client connection only when the TiDB server is offline or restarted as planned. If the TiDB server is offline unexpectedly, the connection is still broken.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It is recommended that you use TiProxy for the scenarios that TiProxy is suitable for and use HAProxy or other proxies when you are sensitive to performance.

```

    ```yaml
    global:
      enable_tls: true
    server_configs:
      tiproxy:
        proxy.addr: "0.0.0.0:6000"
        api.addr: "0.0.0.0:3080"
    ```

4. Start the cluster.

    To start the cluster using TiUP, see [TiUP documentation](/tiup/tiup-documentation-guide.md).

5. Connect to TiProxy.

    After the cluster is deployed, the cluster exposes the ports of TiDB server and TiProxy at the same time. The client should connect to the port of TiProxy instead of the port of TiDB server.

### Modify TiProxy configuration

To ensure that TiProxy keeps the client connection, TiProxy should not be restarted at will. Therefore, most of the TiProxy configuration items can be modified online. For the list of configuration items that support online change, see [TiProxy configuration](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md).

When using TiUP to change the TiProxy configuration, if the configuration item to be changed supports online change, you should use the [`--skip-restart`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-reload.md#--skip-restart) option to avoid restarting TiProxy.

## Compatibility with other components

- TiProxy only supports TiDB v6.5.0 and later versions.

> - TiProxy's TLS connection has incompatible features with TiDB. For details, see [Security](#security).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiProxy's TLS connection has incompatible features with TiDB. For details, see [Security](#security).
- TiDB Dashboard and Grafana support TiProxy from v7.6.0.
```

> - TiUP supports TiProxy from v1.14.1, and TiDB Operator supports TiProxy from v1.5.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiUP supports TiProxy from v1.14.1, and TiDB Operator supports TiProxy from v1.5.1.
```

    It is recommended to enable TLS connections within the cluster to avoid data leakage between TiProxy and TiDB server.

    To configure TiProxy configuration items, see [TiProxy configuration](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md).

    A configuration example is as follows:

    ```yaml
    global:
      enable_tls: true
    server_configs:
      tiproxy:
        proxy.addr: "0.0.0.0:6000"
        api.addr: "0.0.0.0:3080"
    ```

4. Start the cluster.

    To start the cluster using TiUP, see [TiUP documentation](/tiup/tiup-documentation-guide.md).

5. Connect to TiProxy.

    After the cluster is deployed, the cluster exposes the ports of TiDB server and TiProxy at the same time. The client should connect to the port of TiProxy instead of the port of TiDB server.

### Modify TiProxy configuration

> To ensure that TiProxy keeps the client connection, TiProxy should not be restarted at will. Therefore, most of the TiProxy configuration items can be modified online. For the list of configuration items that support online change, see [TiProxy configuration](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that TiProxy keeps the client connection, do not restart TiProxy unless necessary. Therefore, most of the TiProxy configuration items can be modified online. For the list of configuration items that support online change, see [TiProxy configuration](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md).
```

> When using TiUP to change the TiProxy configuration, if the configuration item to be changed supports online change, you should use the [`--skip-restart`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-reload.md#--skip-restart) option to avoid restarting TiProxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using TiUP to change the TiProxy configuration, if the configuration item to be changed supports online change, you can use the [`--skip-restart`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-reload.md#--skip-restart) option to avoid restarting TiProxy.
```

## Compatibility with other components

- TiProxy only supports TiDB v6.5.0 and later versions.
- TiProxy's TLS connection has incompatible features with TiDB. For details, see [Security](#security).
- TiDB Dashboard and Grafana support TiProxy from v7.6.0.
- TiUP supports TiProxy from v1.14.1, and TiDB Operator supports TiProxy from v1.5.1.

> - Because the interface provided by the status port of TiProxy is different from that of TiDB server, when using [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) to import data, the target database should be the address of TiDB server, not the address of TiProxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Because the interface provided by the status port of TiProxy is different from that of TiDB server, when you use [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) to import data, the target database should be the address of TiDB server, not the address of TiProxy.
```

## Security

> TiProxy provides TLS connections.
> 
> The TLS connection between the client and TiProxy is enabled according to the following rules:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiProxy provides TLS connections. The TLS connection between the client and TiProxy is enabled according to the following rules:
```

- The session creates a [prepared statement](/develop/dev-guide-prepared-statement.md), and the prepared statement is invalid. For example, the table related to the prepared statement is dropped after the prepared statement is created.
- The session creates a session-level [execution plan binding](/sql-plan-management.md#sql-binding), and the binding is invalid. For example, the table related to the binding is dropped after the binding is created.
- After the session is created, the user used by the session is deleted or the username is changed.

## Supported connectors

TiProxy requires that the connector used by the client supports [authentication plugins](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/pluggable-authentication.html). Otherwise, the connection might fail.

The following table lists some supported connectors:

| Connector               | The minimum supported version |
|-------------------------|------------|
| MySQL Connector/J       | 5.1.19     |
| libmysqlclient          | 5.5.7      |
| Go SQL Driver           | 1.4.0      |
| MySQL Connector/Node.js | 1.0.2      |
| mysqljs/mysql           | 2.15.0     |
| node-mysql2             | 1.0.0-rc-6 |

> | mysqlnd                 | 5.4        |

Reviewer 3: Maybe add the language as column

```suggestion
| PHP | mysqlnd                 | 5.4        |
```

| MySQL Connector/Node.js | 1.0.2      |
| mysqljs/mysql           | 2.15.0     |
| node-mysql2             | 1.0.0-rc-6 |

> | PHP | mysqlnd                 | 5.4        |

Reviewer 3: This only adds the column for this row, not the other rows.

Reviewer: Maybe it's better to add a dedicated column. I'll do it.
